Consciousness is the Perspective on Existence. Reality is the experience of consciousness, or the experience of a being perceiving existence.

---

Expanding Consciousness is the broadening and/or deepening of a perspective of a being.

Mastery leads to a spiritual experience because one is in a state of coherence while performing an act. During these periods of coherence, one is more attuned to expand consciousness.

Evolutionary clan (family). We need to have families that help us to evolve. We need to evolve to create novel solutions that will save our planet. These novel solutions involve combining novel ancient teachings with newly evolved solutions.

Spirituality is the desire to expand consciousness. Spiritual work is work that expands consciousness in both the act of doing and the end product or service. New solutions & breakthroughs occur. Spiritual work is the process of transcendence, which allows us to to survive & thrive in our personal & collective situations.

---

States follow the principle of strength in numbers. However, states tend to have regulating effects on the population, reducing novelty.

Large civilizations also encourage novelty by allowing specialization. Specialization allows further evolution along disciplines.

However, having specialization can lead to disconnection, as one loses the cross-pollenatization of working on & interacting with those specializing in other things.


---

We are in the business of Evolution.

Healing is a form of evolution.

---

Spirituality through Work

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spirit
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spirituality

The term Spirituality is going through fast & extreme evolution. It relates to blissful transformation which is the evolution of a soul. When one has a "spiritual experience", the soul evolves into a state that is closer to existential understanding. Of experiencing consciousness expanding.

Most often, we relate certain activities to activating spiritual experiences. Singular events, like a moment of love, prayer, near death experiences, visions, dreams, an inspired montague are portrayed to us in literature & mass media to form our definition of a spiritual experience.

---1

Spirituality is often accompanied with a zen feeling of peace. A being in "the zone". The breakthrough. The sun parting the storm clouds. The dissolution of the ego into awareness we are a part of something greater.

How do we experience expanding consciouness ourselves?

---1

A spiritual experience can also be triggered through other activities. Work, for instance, is the activity that adults spend most of their conscious time performing.

Mastery of a task brings out zen experiences, or being in "the zone", when performing the task. Mastery is often attained when doing something that you enjoy enough to practice. The master can get into "the zone" regularly.

The feeling of harmony & coherence (http://www.meditationplex.com/meditation-benefits/effects-meditation-brain-coherence-intelligence/) has beneficial effects on creativity & health. This creativity leads to novelty, or something new & different. This novelty expands the consciouness of the creator & the collective of humanity, thus is a Spiritual endeavor.

Novelty that contributes to coherence & stimulation of more global novelty.

One thing to note is local vs global coherence. One can 
